# Quantitative Trading - Beginners
* Consists of four major components:  
  * Strategy identification;
  * Strategy Backtesting;
  * Execution System;
  * Risk Management.

## 1. Strategy identification
* The beginning of the trading process, starts with researching the trade strategy the will be employed.
* This research involves finding suitable strategies, make sure it fits the portfolio chosen, collecting all data needed to eveloping the strategy and optimizing it for higher profits.
* It is also important to factor in the total capital used in investing, as well as how the strategy affects it.
* It is generally a simple task finfing a good trading strategy, since there are many sources providing it on the web.
* This does not mean that the strategy is profitable, whereas the best adjustments to be done to the strategy have to be setup still.
* Good places to find strategy articles are :
  1. [Social Science Research Network](www.ssrn.com);  
  2. [arXiv Quantitative Finance](arxiv.org/archive/q-fin);  
  3. [Seeking Alpha](www.seekingalpha.com);  
  4. [Elite Trader](www.elitetrader.com);  
  5. [Nuclear Phynance](www.nuclearphynance.com);  
  6. [Quantivity](quantivity.wordpress.comy);  
  7. [Investfly](www.investfly.com).
* Most strategies are derived from two analysis category: _mean-reversing_ and _momentum_.
* A **mean-reversing** based strategy relies on the fact that the difference between two assets tend to stay the same, and if it deviates from that at some point in time, it will tend to move back to that position, giving you and edge.
* Meanwhile, **momentum** based strategies tries to exploit big movements that happens on the market, riding the waves they reate. You can benefit from riding the wave up or down, its just a matter of when you get in to it that will determine your profits.
* Another aspect that needs to be taken in to account when developing a strategy is the frequency at which trading will occur. Low-Frequency trading (**LFT**) are usually for long-holding position traders, whereas High-Frequency trading (**HFT**) for short-holding traders.
* There's also UltraHigh-Frequency Trading (**UHFT**), but these are not for the retail trader, where hardware limitations can affect greatly the result of a trade.

## 2. Strategy Backtesting
* The act of testing the developed strategy in historical and out-of-sample data, providing usable information on how well a strategy performs.
* It does **NOT** represents identically how a strategy will work on real-time daata, since there are some bias configuration happening when tunning the strategy using historical data (look-ahead, survivorship, optimisations).
* In order to perform a good backtesting of a strategy, it is importante to identify the availability of the data we want to perform tests on, as well as the cleanliness of it.
* There are many data sources on the internet, many of which are paid. Generally, the price scales side-by-side with quality, depth and timeline of the data.
* There are a few important concerns that need to be taken care off when working with historical data:
* There are many platforms that performs backtesting of strategies, but it is generally a better advice to develop your own platform.
* This is due to the fact that there are greater benefits at coupling the backtesting platform close together to the order execution system.
* There are a nuerous amount of 'metrics' that can be used to quantify how well a strategy is performing, the most commom of them being the _maximum drawdown_ and the _Sharpe Ration_.
### 2.1. Accuracy
* refers to the overall quality of the data;
* Sometimes errors are easy to pickup, like data spikes that shouldn't be there;
* Other times, these errors are harder to identify, so a good method for identifying errors is by comparing data from two data sources and highliting the differences.
### 2.2. Survivorship Bias
* Often a feature of cheaper datasets;
* Means that assets that are no longer traded on the market are not present on the dataset;
* Strategy testes on data with this feature will usually perform better, since the _winner assets_ have already been chosen.
### 2.3. Corporate actions
* Means that actions taken by companies that resulted in a step in asset price should not be represented in the calculation of returns of the price;
* This generally happens when there are stock splits or adjustment for dividends;
* A process known as **back adjustment** must be performed at each of these actons.

## 3. Execution Systems
* System capable of getting the list of trades generated by the strategy and send it to the broker platform to be executed.
* It doesn't matter if the trading generating strategy is automated or not, the execution system can also be manual, semi-automated or fully automated.
* The level of automation of the execution system is generally coupled with the frequency at which trades are being executed. At most cases, for HFT the systems are amost always fully-automated.
* Some key concepts that must be taken into account when developing your own execution system are: **Interface to the broker**, **transaction costs** and **performance**.
* **Interface to brokers** can be executed in many different ways, the most commom today being to call the fully automated high-performance APIs provided by the brokers platforms. Ideally, the more automated are your trades, the more time you will have to perform researches and develop new strategies to run alongside the current one.
* It is impossible to be HFT without having some form of automation on the execution of your trading strategy. Most HFT strategies can be developed using Python, but for HFT in the order of minutes or seconds, it would be better to design these system in higher-performing languages, like C/C++.
* **Transaction Cost** is usually influenced by three major components: _Commissions_, which are fees charged; _slippage_, which is the difference between the intended order price and the filled order price; and finally _spread_, which is the difference between the buy/sell price of the asset. These factors can make the difference between a profitable trade and a losing trade.
* Many factors can influence how the market behaves, and thus, the profitability and **performance** of your strategy. The more frequency of trades being executed, the more chance of the backtesting performance diverge from the real world performance.

## 4. Risk Management
* In short, it covers everything that could possibly interfere with the implementation of the trading system, chich are many.
* Alongside that, risk management also worries about the _optimal capital allocation_ that should be employed to your portfolio. This usually uses the _Kelly criterion_ to perform is calculations. In general, it dictates that investors must be more conservative than what they would expect, since markets don't provide returns that are exact.
* On another side, there's also the psichological aspect of the risk management. Some investors, especially those not so keen to algoithmic trading, get too emotional about trades, and can take actions that minimize their profits or maximize their losses.

## 5. Retail trader advantages
* Many people believe that due to big investors organizations, there are not a lot more of money to be made on algorithmic trading, but this is not true. Due to many facts, including regulatory systems and organisational structures, as well as 'big money', there are some movements created by these organizations that can be exploited by creating numerous amount of strategies.
* Also, there are some meaningfull advantages at being a retail trader in a ocean of funds.
### 5.1 Trading Advantages/Disadvantages
* **Capacity**: retail trader can venture through lots of markets, where they can generate significant amounts of incomes.
* **Crowding the trade**: They usually tend to follow the same 'inside information', consequently, performing the 'same trade'. Retail traders don't have to follow these informations, and can create their own trade strategy.
* **Market Impact**: generally, retail traders operates lower volumes of capital than organisations, which reduces market impact for high liquidity markets.
* **Liquidity**: it is generally out of reach for the retail trader to get acess to prime broker platforms, which have reduced liquidity
* **Client news**: retail traders don't get access to clients news like organizations do, having to make use of non-traditional sources of info to base their trades on.
### 5.2 Risk Management 
* In the investment environment, it is generally better to be be 'small and nimble' when facing risk management.
* Big investment funds have a lot of compliance and regulation acting upon their strategies, not allowing them to take risks above the 'industry standard' threshold.
* On the other side, retail traders only have to comply to their own risk management policies, adjusting them over time and experience. Alongside that, it could use multiple strategies with multiple risk levels, optimizing profits.
* This can often lead to retil investor becoming 'sloppy' with their risk management, which could result in substantial losses.
### 5.3 Investor Relations  
#### 5.3.1 Compensation Structure
* Retail traders are only worried about absolute returns, thus being able to support more volatile equity returns.
#### 5.3.2 Regulations/reporting
* the only regulation retail traders have to worry about is basicaly tax returns, meanwhile big investment companies have to create monthly reports, reports for regulatory agencies and clientes, etc.
#### 5.3.3 Benchmark comparison
* Retails does not have to compare their strategies to industry benchmarks
#### 5.3.4 Performance fees
* Retails traders don't have the performance and management fees that are enjoyed by succesful quant traders at companies.

### 5.4 Technology
* This is the area that retail traders have ethe most advantage of big investment funds.
* Since they can build their own system, choosing the best technology stack they see fit for their solution, they don't have to worry about legacy code, or fit to IT-department standards.
* This comes with the price of testing, developing and scaling the whole system, as well as debugging errors, which can be very time consuming and painstaking.

## 6 Essential Begginer Books
* **Non-mathematical**:
  * Quantitative trading - Ernest Chan
  * Inside the Black Box - Rishi K. Narang
  * Algorithmic Trading & DMA - Barry Johnson
* **Strategies**:
  * Algorithmic Trading - Ernest Chan
  * Trading and Exchanges - Larry Harris

